So as I've just told you and
as I've just demonstrated,
many properties inherit automatically it's
part of their DNA, it's what they do.
But, we can force inheritance
in some some cases as well,
enforcing inheritance is done
through the inherit value.
So we can assign inherit to pretty
much any type of property in CSS and
it will inherit whatever is coming from
the parent and that's the key point.
So regular inheritance goes on forever,
using the inherit keyword will only
go as far back as one generation so
to speak only back to the parent and
no father.
So let's take a look at how that works
as well, all right, so what we have here
in our example is the same HTML that we
just had from the previous example, and
now I have changed nothing in that HTML,
so all the IDs, all the classes and
the text is all basically the same.
And we're gonna switch
over to our CSS here.
And some of the styling that I
just showed you is still there.
So here is the body image,
any link hover and
clearing the float, and
a little bit of styling on the footer.
Okay, So,
let's try putting on some properties
here that definitely do not inherit.
Anything having to do with Box Model
typically does NOT inherit.
So the border is one of those.
So let's say the article has going to
have a border of two pixels solid blue
So there is a nice blue box
around that particular webpage.
As you know of course it doesn't
inherit because if it did inherit
we would see borders around our
paragraphs and our H ones and so on and
so forth, we can force this inheritance
if we want to simply by saying p and
then border:inherit.
So by setting it up this way, I'm now
stating that all of my paragraphs should
inherit that same border
from their parent.
And if we take a look at our HTML,
you'll see there's that article.
Right, that's the first big
blue box around everything and
then we have our paragraph for
cloud, starts get tough with it, and
we have our paragraph for tree,
that says pretend your water.
Notice that we do have a paragraph
that's down here in the footer.
The footer is descended from the article.
But the paragraph is not a direct
descendant, paragraph is more of
a grandchild relative to the article
as opposed to a direct child.
And the paragraph in the footer
does not have a border around it.
That's because we only go back
one level on that inheritance.
You might be wondering
how far can we push this?
So here I've declared on my article
that the border is going to be on all
four sides, right?
What if I said just,
I want it only on the border bottom.
That is also legal because border
bottom is a subset of that border
property overall.
So now I can just put in simply those
borders on the bottom of those paragraphs,
not necessarily on all four sides.
But what if I wanted to have those borders
on the bottom I wanted them to be green
instead of blue, well unfortunately
that is not gonna be possible.
Border bottom inherit will pull in all
of the properties from the parent,
but it's not going to change the color.
What we'd have to do is add to this
then something like border-color:green.
And putting it after that
border bottom inherit,
means that we bring in the blue border and
then we change it to the green color.
What would happen if I put this border
color before the border bottom inherit,
what would happen?
Take a guess.
Sure enough,
the cascade is still in effect.
So even though I said that it was green,
because border bottom inherit comes later,
it will be blue instead.
Now inside of our paragraphs,
At least those
two particular paragraphs,
you'll see here that I have some links.
So I have fluff this cloud and
I have happy little limbs.
Both of those are links.
What would happen if I tried to
inherit the border to those links?
So if I said a { border-bottom: inherit;
So now I can inherit the border-bottom
underneath the links,
sorry it's double underlined,
but there we go.
We have those links also now have
a blue border underneath of them.
But if I wanted to change this,
say to border top inherit,
we don't inherit anything at all.
That's because the parent only has
a border bottom to inherit to this A.
It doesn't have the full border,
I would have to change this back to
the full border that is being inherited,
in order for
border tops take effect over the links.
So basically there's some limitations as
to how you can inherit properties from one
particular element to another.
Remember, you have to have a direct
parent child relationship.
If you are using a more complicated
type of declaration like a border
declaration where it might
be on four sides, two sides,
one side, whatever, the inheritance
is going to be a little bit
more complicated as to what's
available to those children.
And if you wanna override anything
that's coming from the parent,
you need to make sure it comes after
your inherited declaration, so
that it will take priority over
what comes in via its inheritance.
Any questions so far?
All right, so now we have taken
it's properties that don't normally
inherit we've used the inherit
Keyword in order to force inheritance.
What about when inheritance is happening
and we don't want it to happen?
How can we turn off inheritance?
One of the great ways to take
a look at the this in detail
is looking at a link in particular.
So here I have, a paragraph here,
it's got a font family font size,
a color and a border on it.
So one of those will inherit the font
family, the font size and the color.
The border of course does
not inherit by default.
If we take a look at our hover state,
when I just hover over this link,
right now I haven't applied any
special link styling to this.
So all of the styling is coming from
the user agent or the browser stylesheet,
which as you know means it's going to
be blue and underlined when the link is
unvisited, it's purple and
underlined when the link is visited.
So depending on whether you've been to
the front end masters website today,
that link will either show up as blue or
purple inside of your browser window.
By default, there is no hover state,
necessarily on that link.
It looks exactly the same as
whatever state your link is in now,
so if you visited the link
it'll be purple and
underlined when you hover over it
if you haven't visited the link,
it'll be blue and
underlined when you hover over it.
So I'm gonna style up that link now we'll
start with just a simple a style and
I'm going to use the key property of all,
all:inherit.
All right, so I'm telling the link to
inherit everything from its parent so
the parent is the paragraph.
Notice of what's happened here,
we have now the words front end masters
are green and not underlined like
the paragraph, it has a border around it
like the paragraph and what else it's
on its own line, isn't that weird?
We'll remember that paragraphs
are block level elements,
so they have a display
block set on them whereas
links are in line they have
a display in lines set on them.
In this case, front and masters
that link has inherited the display
property as well from its parent and so
it is displaying as a block element.
Note that this link is
indeed still a link.
We can roll our mouse over it.
It looks like I'm rolling my
mouse over the paragraph,
it looks like it's an eye bar.
Instead of the cursor that looks
like a finger pointer thing,
as I roll over the link but
it is clickable.
So when I click it,
it opens up in a new window.
So inherit is really serious business,
it will literally inherit everything
from its parent when you
have the set to all inherit.
Now I'd like to go into some values
that you can use with any CSS property,
that will control certain
aspects of inheritance.
We use the generic inherit keyword
before to inherit certain properties.
But with these properties we are going
to cancel parts of the inheritance,
and the key words that we're going
to use for these values are revert,
initial and unset.
So let's look at those in
the context of this link.
Okay, so
I am going to change my 'a' here and
we're going to do this inheritance
between the 'a' and the 'a' hover state.
So, as I demonstrated before,
your link when you hover over it
right now really has no change to it.
So I'm hovering over my link,
there's no change to it.
So let's make some changes happen to it.
For my a, I'm going to style it this way.
I'm gonna say the font-family:courier,
monospace and the color
Is brown, okay?
So when I roll my mouse over that link,
it will continue to be brown and
courier, by default.
So now I'm going to start changing
some of these properties on hover.
So when I go to a:hover, I'm gonna
use my all property and
I'm going to say initial as the value.
So we are going to try
to reset some things,
this is going to strip away all of
the styling even the styling that is
coming from the users from the stylesheet
of the browser the user agent.
So when I roll over this,
notice what happens,
it completely changes and
what we wind up with, it's a little weird.
I am hovered over it right there
at that point with my browser.
You'll see the words front and
masters are roughly 1 RAM.
There are Times new roman,
they are not blue.
They're not underlined.
They don't look any way like link.
We have stripped away all of
the styling from everywhere.
The default browser styling is gone.
All of the styling from above where
I have the font family of courier and
the color of brown, everything is gone,
we blew it all away and all we're left
with is some basic text there on the page.
So initial, the job of initial is to
strip away all the styling that's
being inherited from
anywhere along the way.
The next keyword is revert.
And what revert will do is,
it's kind of an undo button.
So when I roll over this link with revert,
you'll notice that if you have not
visited the front end masters link lately,
it will still be blue and underlined.
If you have visited that link lately,
it'll be purple and underlined.
So that is what revert is going to do.
It will strip away basically what comes
before it in the author stylesheet.
And it will leave in place what it
would have gotten from, in this case,
the user agent stylesheet or
the browser stylesheet and
it will wind up looking
that way by default.
So notice the font is gone,
the color is gone.
That's what happens on hover, so
that is the purpose of revert.
So the last one here is unset, and
if we put in unset here on hover,
then when I roll over the link
notice what's happening here.
So basically, what we've done is,
the immediate parent in this case,
the 'a' has set to courier
monospace in a color of brown.
The paragraph is set to
aerial with a color of green.
Now what has happened
with this unset property?
When I roll over my link,
we've stripped away the styling for
the 'a', and we've gone back to
the styling for the paragraph.
In other words,
we've skipped back to basically the great,
kind of the grandparent, I guess.
But we've gone back to an earlier
version of that styling.
We've stripped away the immediate 'a'
styling and gone back to the styling that
is coming from the paragraph
in this particular case.
So that's what's happening
here with the unset keyword.
Finally let me just show you
that I've used unset, revert and
initial now with the all property on hover
just to show you that you can use these
with individual properties, you don't
have to always use them with all.
Let me show you how that would work.
So now on hover,
let's just say I want the color to revert.
So when I roll over my link now,
revert remember is going to revert
me to what is coming from the user
agent stylesheet in terms of its color.
Now, we can go back to
our font family revert.
So this is gonna revert to again
to the user agent stylesheet.
So when I roll over this
now it should be Arial.
Sure enough, that's what happens and
it will continue to be blue because
that we reset the color on it.
But if I wanted to reset the font size,
The font size is coming from
the paragraph not from the 'a'.
And so it will actually have no effect.
It will stay the font size that it is,
the font size is too far back,
that declaration is too far back for
revert to take effect here
in this particular example.
Okay, so that's a little bit about
the all property, the revert,
initial and unset values and how you can
apply them inside of your style sheet.
We've just demonstrated
them here on links but
of course you could use it with any type
of selector inside of your document.